.TH COMPACTUUID 1 "January 2026" "CompactUUID" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
compactuuid \- generate or convert compact UUID strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B compactuuid
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compactuuid
generates random compact UUID strings in one of several formats, or converts to and from full UUID strings.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Set the compact UUID string format.
Default is \fBbase58\fR.
Valid values: \fBbase58\fR, \fBbase64\fR, \fBurlSafeBase75\fR, \fBcookieBase90\fR, \fBemojis\fR.
The format value is case-insensitive.

.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-allFormats ", " \-\-allformats
Generate a compact UUID for every format.
Can be combined with \fB\-\-fromUUID\fR to convert the same full UUID into each compact format.

.TP
.BR \-\-fromUUID " " \fIfullUUID\fR
Convert a full UUID string (with hyphens) into a compact UUID string using the selected format.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-toUUID " " \fIcompactUUID\fR
Convert a compact UUID string into a full UUID string (with hyphens) using the selected format.
If conversion fails, prints \fBInvalid format.\fR

.TP
.BR \-\-alphabet ", " \-\-alpha
Print the alphabet for the selected format.
Can be combined with other modes (for example, to also print the alphabet after generating output).

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help information.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Generate a random compact UUID (default format base58):
.RS
.B compactuuid
.RE

.TP
Generate a random compact UUID in base64:
.RS
.B compactuuid --format base64
.RE

.TP
Convert a full UUID to a compact UUID:
.RS
.B compactuuid --fromUUID 550E8400-E29B-41D4-A716-446655440000
.RE

.TP
Convert a compact UUID back to a full UUID:
.RS
.B compactuuid --toUUID <compactUUID>
.RE

.TP
Generate one UUID per format:
.RS
.B compactuuid --allFormats
.RE

.TP
Convert the same full UUID into every compact format:
.RS
.B compactuuid --allFormats --fromUUID 550E8400-E29B-41D4-A716-446655440000
.RE

.TP
Print the alphabet for the emojis format:
.RS
.B compactuuid --format emojis --alphabet
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B compactuuid
exits with status 0 on success.
Invalid inputs may still produce output messages (for example, invalid UUID strings or invalid compact UUID format).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uuidgen (1)
